# Voting - NIST Special Publication 1500-101 Election Event Logging Common Data Format Specification Version 1

This repository holds the NIST Special Publication 1500-101 Election Event Logging Common Data Format Specification Version 1 and supporting files.  Besides the PDF and Word versions of the specification located in this repository, there is an HTML version at

https://pages.nist.gov/ElectionEventLogging

The Election Event Logging specification is also available using the following Digital Object Identifier (DOI):

https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1500-101

The election event logging specification is for election event logs produced by election devices used in U.S. states and territories.  The logs contain information generated by voting-related applications such as election management systems (EMS), electronic pollbooks, ballot marking devices, ballot scanners, or other vote-capture applications that are operating on election devices.  The types of information logged include items required in the current and next versions of the U.S. Election Assistance Commission (EAC) Voluntary Voting System Guidelines (VVSG) such as timestamps, event IDs, and event types, however manufacturers may include additional information in the logs.

The purpose of this specification is to provide concise and interoperable JSON and XML formats for manufacturers to integrate into their voting equipment and for election offices, researchers, testing laboratories and other groups to use in their own software.  The advantages of using this specification include:

 - Election logs are in the same, defined format regardless of device manufacturer.
 - Manufacturers can use the same, defined format for defining event codes and other information that may be specific to their own equipment.
 - Analyzing election logs produced by different types of equipment and different manufacturers is made significantly easier.

Please contact [John Wack](mailto:john.wack@nist.gov) or [John Dziurlaj](mailto:john@hiltonroscoe.com) for questions and more information.

## Repo Structure

|Name     |Description                                         |
|---------|----------------------------------------------------|
|Election_Event_Logging_UML_documentation_files|Images of UML classes|
|Election_Event_Logging_UML_documentation.md|UML documentation in MarkDown|
|EventLogging.png|Image of UML model|
|EventLoggingV1.xml|MagicDraw UML Model|
|NIST SP 1500-101 ElectionEventLogging.docm|Word version of election event logging specification|
|**NIST SP 1500-101 ElectionEventLogging.pdf**|PDF version of election event logging specification|
|**NIST_V1_election_event_logging.json**|Election event logging JSON schema|
|**NIST_V1_election_event_logging.xml**|Election event logging XML schema|
